README.md, before:

# UX Aspects

UX Aspects is an open source user interface framework for building modern, responsive, mobile big data applications on the web.

# Installation

## Bower

1. Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/), which provides the npm package manager.
2. Install [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/):
```bash
npm install typescript --save-dev
```
3. Install [Angular 4](https://angular.io/) and other dependencies:
```bash
npm install @angular/common @angular/compiler @angular/compiler-cli @angular/core @angular/forms @angular/http @angular/platform-browser @angular/platform-browser-dynamic @angular/platform-server @angular/router ngx-bootstrap chart.js ng2-charts @types/chart.js core-js zone.js rxjs --save
```
4. Install [Bower](https://bower.io/):
```bash
npm install -g bower
```
5. Install the UX Aspects bower package:
```bash
bower install ux-aspects
```

# Documentation and Examples

See the documentation site for full details and interactive examples of UX Aspects components:

[https://uxaspects.github.io/UXAspects/](https://uxaspects.github.io/UXAspects/)

# Contributing

Pull requests are welcome; see the [developer guide](guides/developer-standard.md) for more information.

To build the project, which includes UX Aspects and the documentation site:

1. Clone the respository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/UXAspects/UXAspects.git
```
2. Install the dependencies using `npm` in the repository directory:
```bash
npm install
```
3. Build the project and start the development server. This will automatically rebuild when source changes are made.
```bash
grunt documentation:serve
```
4. The documentation site is hosted at [http://localhost:8080/](http://localhost:8080/). Use [http://localhost:8080/webpack-dev-server/](http://localhost:8080/webpack-dev-server/) for a frame which will automatically be reloaded when a build completes.

# License

UX Aspects code is released under the MIT License. Licenses for 3rd party code included in this repository can be found in the [licenses summary](https://uxaspects.github.io/UXAspects/assets/licenses.txt).

Commit message:

EL-2494 (#152)
* EL-2494

Added webpack.dev.config.js which includes webpack configs for docs and
each of the 3 assets needed to run examples externally (lib, ng1, css).
Since I could not get the grunt-webpack plugin to handle multiple
configs at once, this is currently launched by `npm start`.
Added a grunt task to install the webpack-dev-server localhost
certificate on Windows.
Fixed CSS urls to be correctly relative.
Added a config.dev.json which uses the localhost assetsUrl, this will be
used when the dev server is run.
Updated the showcase to use css and ng1 from assets, so that can be
rebuilt by the dev server.
Removed the connect:plunker task.
Updated the readme.

* EL-2494

Amended issues with the readme file.

README.md, after:

# UX Aspects

UX Aspects is an open source user interface framework for building modern, responsive, mobile big data applications on the web.

# Installation

## Bower

1. Install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/), which provides the npm package manager.
2. Install [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/):
```bash
npm install typescript --save-dev
```
3. Install [Angular 4](https://angular.io/) and other dependencies:
```bash
npm install @angular/common @angular/compiler @angular/compiler-cli @angular/core @angular/forms @angular/http @angular/platform-browser @angular/platform-browser-dynamic @angular/platform-server @angular/router ngx-bootstrap chart.js ng2-charts @types/chart.js core-js zone.js rxjs --save
```
4. Install [Bower](https://bower.io/):
```bash
npm install -g bower
```
5. Install the UX Aspects bower package:
```bash
bower install ux-aspects
```

# Documentation and Examples

See the documentation site for full details and interactive examples of UX Aspects components:

[https://uxaspects.github.io/UXAspects/](https://uxaspects.github.io/UXAspects/)

# Contributing

Pull requests are welcome; see the [developer guide](guides/developer-standard.md) for more information.

To build the project, which includes UX Aspects and the documentation site:

1. Clone the respository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/UXAspects/UXAspects.git
```
2. Install the dependencies using `npm` in the repository directory:
```bash
npm install
```
3. (Optional) Add the webpack-dev-server certificate (`node_modules/webpack-dev-server/ssl/server.pem`) to the machine's certificate store. This will allow the development server to run using HTTPS without warnings, which is required to test Plunker/CodePen examples locally. On Windows, with [OpenSSL](https://www.openssl.org/source/) installed:
```bash
grunt webpack_import_cert
```
3. Build the project and start the development server. This will automatically rebuild when source changes are made.
```bash
npm start
```
4. The documentation site is hosted at [https://localhost:8080/](https://localhost:8080/). This will automatically reload when changes are made.

# License

UX Aspects code is released under the MIT License. Licenses for 3rd party code included in this repository can be found in the [licenses summary](https://uxaspects.github.io/UXAspects/assets/licenses.txt).
