guides/Protractor Tests Documentation.md, before:


### These instructions apply to Windows machines only.


### Software installation and configuration

#### Required software

Install the [Java SE SDK 1.8](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html).

- Add the environment variable JAVA\_HOME, setting it to the location of the JDK e.g. C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121.
- Add the location of the JDK's Bin folder to the PATH environment variable.

Install [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/) (version 7.4.0 or higher).

Install [Git for Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win).

- Ensure that the *Git Bash Here* checkbox is checked in the Select Components page.

Clone the UXAspects repository

- After installing Git, in Windows Explorer right-click in the folder where you wish to clone the UXAspects repository, open a Git Bash command prompt and run `git clone https://github.com/UXAspects/UXAspects.git`.
- cd to the 'UXAspects' folder and check out the required branch e.g. `git checkout develop`.

#### Building UXAspects

- In the 'UXAspects' folder run the commands `npm install` and `grunt build`.

#### Running the Protractor tests

- In the 'UXAspects' folder run the command `grunt e2e`. Results files will be created in the e2e/HTML and e2e/xml folders.

### Adding a new test

Create a test page

- Create a folder under e2e/pages/app. In the folder create a HTML file and a TypeScript file defining the components to be tested.

- Edit e2e/pages/app.module.ts. Import the new test page component. Add the component to the 'ROUTES' and 'declarations' arrays.

Create the new tests

- Create a folder for the tests under e2e/tests.

- Create a PageObject file (named xxxxxx.po.spec.ts) to wrap access to controls on the test page.

- Create a file (names xxxxxx.e2e-spec.ts) containing the Jasmine-based tests. The tests should access elements in the test page through exports from the PageObject file.

### Executing tests in different browsers

By default, tests will be executed in the Chrome browser. To test in other browsers uncomment the appropriate line in the 'capabilities' object in e2e/protracor.config.js. Only one browser may be tested at a time.

### Useful links

Protractor Tutorials  
<http://www.protractortest.org>

Commit message:

EL-2613 package-lock.json rebuilt after NPM 5 installed. Update Protractor Tests guide to inform user that 'grunt build' must have been run before tests are run.

guides/Protractor Tests Documentation.md, after:


### These instructions apply to Windows machines only.


### Software installation and configuration

#### Required software

Install the [Java SE SDK 1.8](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html).

- Add the environment variable JAVA\_HOME, setting it to the location of the JDK e.g. C:\Program Files\Java\jdk1.8.0_121.
- Add the location of the JDK's Bin folder to the PATH environment variable.

Install [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/) (version 7.4.0 or higher).

Install [Git for Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win).

- Ensure that the *Git Bash Here* checkbox is checked in the Select Components page.

Clone the UXAspects repository

- After installing Git, in Windows Explorer right-click in the folder where you wish to clone the UXAspects repository, open a Git Bash command prompt and run `git clone https://github.com/UXAspects/UXAspects.git`.
- cd to the 'UXAspects' folder and check out the required branch e.g. `git checkout develop`.

#### Building UXAspects

The Protractor tests require assets created when UXAspects is built.

- In the 'UXAspects' folder run the commands `npm install` and `grunt build`.

#### Running the Protractor tests

- In the 'UXAspects' folder run the command `grunt e2e`. Results files will be created in the e2e/HTML and e2e/xml folders.

### Adding a new test

Create a test page

- Create a folder under e2e/pages/app. In the folder create a HTML file and a TypeScript file defining the components to be tested.

- Edit e2e/pages/app.module.ts. Import the new test page component. Add the component to the 'ROUTES' and 'declarations' arrays.

Create the new tests

- Create a folder for the tests under e2e/tests.

- Create a PageObject file (named xxxxxx.po.spec.ts) to wrap access to controls on the test page.

- Create a file (names xxxxxx.e2e-spec.ts) containing the Jasmine-based tests. The tests should access elements in the test page through exports from the PageObject file.

### Executing tests in different browsers

By default, tests will be executed in the Chrome browser. To test in other browsers uncomment the appropriate line in the 'capabilities' object in e2e/protracor.config.js. Only one browser may be tested at a time.

### Useful links

Protractor Tutorials  
<http://www.protractortest.org>
